## Motivation

In my current job, my team is responsible for our ITIL management tool suite. We use the Remedy ITSM
Suite from BMC Software. In my role on the team, I am responsible for the design, operation, and
performance of the Windows Servers that host the BMC solution. There are others on the team that
specialize in development and operation of the Remedy ITSM software.

I point this out to say that I am not a Remedy expert. But I have built some tools using BMC's API
libraries (ARAPI.NET). I have not been very happy with the documentation and examples that I have
been able to find online (both on BMC's site and on other developer sites). The examples don't seem
very useful. I still have not been able to find a good collection of programming patterns for using
the Remedy APIs. If you know of some, please share.

This post will be the first of many. I am planning to document the what I have learned about using
ARAPI.NET. I have no particular outline or agenda. I will just want to share what I have learned and
hopefully provide some better examples.

## Installing ARAPI.NET

1. Download the bits from the BMC website. I have provided a link to the v8.0 version of the API in
   the ## Resources section below. From there you can find links to old versions but I find that
   this version works with Remedy 7.6 and higher. The download link is toward the bottom of the web
   page. You will have to accept the license terms.

1. Unzip the package into a folder. The download is just a ZIP. There is no installer. I put mine in
   `C:\Program Files (x86)\BMC Software\ARAPI80.NET`. Why there? Because:

   - I don't like to install things in the root of the drive.
   - The API library only supports 32-bit processes (hence the x86 folder).
   - `%PROGRAMFILES%\BMC Software` is the default location for most of the other BMC products.

1. Register the Remedy API COM classes. This step may be optional if you do not plan on using the
   COM interfaces. If you are only writing .NET code then you can skip this. If the target machine
   does not have Visual Studio installed but does have the .NET Framework SDK installed, use the SDK
   command prompt by choosing Programs, then Microsoft .NET Framework SDK v2.0. If you cannot find
   it, open a command prompt at the path where Regasm is located. For example, the .NET Framework
   2.0 default installation path is `C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v2.0.50727`.

   On my machine I ran the following command:

   ```
   C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v2.0.50727\RegAsm.exe "c:\Program Files (x86)\BMC Software\ARAPI80.NET\BMC.ARSystem.dll" /codebase
   ```

   Note that this requires administrative rights. So you need to run it from an elevated command prompt.

1. Add the API folder to your system PATH environment. When you run an ARAPI client program, make
   sure the ARAPI.NET directory is in the DLL search path for that process (either by copying needed
   files to the working directory of the program or using this installation directory as the working
   directory for your program).

That's it. Now you can start creating programs and scripts using the Remedy API. In future articles,
I will provide examples in C# or PowerShell. Now it is time to read the available documentation. See
the links below.

## Resources

- [Download AR System .NET and COM API 8.0.0](https://communities.bmc.com/docs/DOC-22613)
- [AR System APIs Quick Start C#](https://communities.bmc.com/docs/DOC-17517)
- [AR System APIs Quick Start VB](https://communities.bmc.com/docs/DOC-17518)
- [Action Request System .NET and COM API part 1](https://communities.bmc.com/docs/DOC-50)
- [Action Request System .NET and COM API part 2](https://communities.bmc.com/docs/DOC-51)
- [Remedy AR System API and Integration Interfaces Overview](https://communities.bmc.com/docs/DOC-17512)
