Recently we went through the exercise of updating our Windows Server
2012 R2 deployment image to include a bunch of updates. After this, we
noticed that several PowerShell scripts were failing. I also noticed
that some commands stopped working properly including PowerShell's own
Get-Help cmdlet. \[code language="text" light="true"\] PS C:\\temp>
help Program 'more.com' failed to run: Object reference not set to an
instance of an object.At line:14 char:14 +     $input \| more.com
+              \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~. At line:14 char:5 +     $input \|
more.com +     \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +
CategoryInfo          : ResourceUnavailable: (:) \[\],
ApplicationFailedException + FullyQualifiedErrorId : NativeCommandFailed
\[/code\] In fact, you will get the same error anytime you attempt to
use a native command (EXE, etc.) in the pipeline. The problem occurs
after
[KB3000850](https://support.microsoft.com/help/3000850/november-2014-update-rollup-for-windows-rt-8-1-windows-8-1-and-windows "KB3000850")
is installed but is related to having PowerShell Module Logging ~~and
Process Creation auditing enabled~~.  See the following forum post for
another reported
example: <https://community.idera.com/database-tools/powershell/ask_the_experts/f/learn_powershell_from_don_jones-24/19217/strange-program-more-com-failed-to-run-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object#pi565=2>
Here are the relevant policy settings in our environment. \[code
language="text" light="true"\] Computer Settings Administrative
Templates Windows Components/Windows PowerShell Turn on Module Logging =
Enabled Module Names = \* Turn on Script Execution = Enabled Execution
Policy = Allow local scripts and remote signed scripts \[/code\] ~~The
forum post on powershell.com seems to indicate that you must also have
"Include command line in process creation events" enabled but that is
not the case in our environment.~~ You can work around the problem by
disabling module logging for all modules for the duration of the
PowerShell session/script. \[code language="powershell" light="true"\]
Get-Module \| %{ $\_.LogPipelineExecutionDetails=$false } \[/code\] This
is not a viable solution for the existing scripts and automation that we
use. Plus, process creation auditing and module logging are enabled by
policy for security purposes. Removing KB3000850 removes the problem.
But there are many fixes rolled up in KB3000850 that we want in our
environment. I also noticed that the file list attached to this KB
article includes 60 files related to PowerShell but none of the articles
listed in the rollup mention those files so there is no documentation
about the PowerShell changes included in this rollup. I have opened a
case with Microsoft. I will post updates as I learn more. **Update
26-March-2015** We did some more testing and ruled out the Process
Creation auditing. Having that auditing enabled or disabled does not
affect the problem. You only need Module Logging enabled for PowerShell.
Microsoft is still investigating the issue. **Update 22-April-2015**
Microsoft has finally been able to isolate the problem and has declared
this to be a bug. Now we are waiting for them to decide how and when to
fix the problem. **Update 24-April-2015** Found another side effect of
this update. With the update installed, you may experience errors adding
Roles and Features to your server. I was trying to add the Desktop
Experience feature to my desktop server and it was failing with the
message: "Object reference not set to an instance of an object." If you
look in the Event log you will find the following event: \[code
language="text" light="true"\] Log Name:
Microsoft-Windows-ServerManager-MultiMachine/Operational Source:
Microsoft-Windows-ServerManager-MultiMachine Date: 4/24/2015 11:08:43 AM
Event ID: 2014 Task Category: Server manager startup task. Level:
Information Keywords: User: CONTOSO\\adminuser Computer:
servername.contoso.net Description: Deployment Wizard commit action
completed. Target Server: localhost. Job:
ID:d80f627f-4fee-4d87-bbe4-7858d64a2265;Feature installation. Status:
Failed. Reason Object reference not set to an instance of an object.
\[/code\] So it seems that installing that Feature requires the use of a
Native Command and it is failing for the same reason. Who knows how many
other Roles and Features may be affected like this. Removing KB3000850
allowed me to add the Desktop Experience feature. **Update 1-May-2015**
Good news! We just received a patch to test from Microsoft and have
smoke-tested it on several machines. This patch resolves the issue. So
now we just need Microsoft to test and package it for public
consumption. **Update 10-July-2015** The fix is finally being released
as KB3062960. It should be available on the 14th of July (Patch
Tuesday). **Update 14-July-2015** The hotfix is now published:
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/3062960 You must download and
deploy this manually. This is not published in Windows Update.
